# Experiment 2a

The aim of Experiment 2 was to ask the same question in the context of the list-wide proportion congruent (LWPC) paradigm, examining the effect of performance feedback on global or proactive, anticipatory control. In LWPC paradigms, control-demand is probabilistically manipulated across blocks of trials, which may facilitate control-learning through list-wide, global control; stimulus-driven, item-specific control; or a combination of both, as well as allowing for possible contingency-learning effects. For instance, individual image categories can predict stimulus congruency and be influenced by an overall list-wide, mostly congruent or incongruent context (both stimulus-driven and list-wide control).  To dissociate between the contribution of the list-wide and item-specific influences on modulating Stroop congruency, while also controlling for contingency learning confounds, we here included both items that were non-predictive (PC-50) and strongly predictive (PC-85/15) (cf. Bugg & Chanani, 2011). The predictive items created an overall PC-75/25 list context, while the non-predictive items indexed control-learning biased at only the list-level. We subsequently refer to any differences in Stroop congruency for PC-50 items in low vs. high control-demand lists as the unbiased list-wide proportion congruent (LWPC) effect and any differences in Stroop congruency for PC-85/15 items as the biased ISPC/LWPC effect.

If the LWPC paradigm reflected learned proactive control (Bugg, 2017) and proactive control were costly yet sensitive to reward (Braver, 2012), we should observe a stronger LWPC effect for the feedback group. However, if the primary mechanism for control-learning is associative learning, sensitive to any instance of reinforcement, we should observe a comparable LWPC effect across feedback groups. Irrespective of these rival hypotheses, we expected to replicate the basic LWPC effect in the no-feedback group, which corresponds to the design of previous work (Bugg & Chanani, 2011), and we also expected to replicate the proportion congruent and congruency interaction that we observed in Experiment 1, specifically for the images that were biased at both the item and list level (the ISPC/LWPC effect).

# Experiment 2b

Because we expected to replicate standard LWPC effects for the no feedback group in Experiment 2a and because we observed a speed-accuracy trade-off, we opted to run a larger replication sample. Like Experiment 1b, to discourage the speed-accuracy trade-off, we added in an additional line about responding as quickly and accurately and restricted the participant sample to people who had a mailing address in the United States.
