# Experiment 1a

To assess how performance feedback affects the learning of associations between specific stimuli and control demands, we devised a picture-word item-specific proportion congruent (ISPC) Stroop task. In this task (Figure 1), image categories served as implicit probabilistic cues that predicted the likelihood of conflict-control demand: half of the images were more likely to appear with an incongruent overlaid distractor word (low proportion congruent; e.g., DEER on a picture of a bear), while the others were more likely to appear with a congruent overlaid distractor word (high proportion congruent; e.g., BEAR on a picture of a bear). 

This ISPC paradigm avoids stimulus-response learning confounds related to participants learning to use the distracters for predicting the response (e.g., Jacoby et al., 2003; Schmidt & Besner, 2008), because the task-relevant target image, rather than the distracter word, predicts congruency as well as responses in this design (cf. Bugg et al., 2011; Chiu et al., 2017). This is a commonly used design, and the current task thus allows us to determine to what degree the ISPC effect in a typical ISPC design may benefit from performance feedback. However, this design may be a suboptimal assessment of “pure” item-based control, since it involves different frequencies of specific stimulus-distracter compound stimuli (e.g., more frequent occurrences of the mostly-congruent and mostly-incongruent items) (Braem et al., in press). To assess “pure” item-based control, we also included a transfer run without frequency confounds (Bugg et al., 2011; Bugg & Dey, 2018).

In the final run of the task, we tested whether these learned associations between image categories and control-demand also transferred to unbiased category exemplars, which were not predictive of proportion congruency. Transfer is not crucial for understanding the effect of performance feedback on the typical ISPC effect, but provides a cleaner measure of adaptive control, and is likely dependent on the strength of the ISPC effect due to its reliance on the category-level association (cf. Bugg & Dey, 2018). Crucially, in one group of participants, this task was administered without trial-by-trial feedback on response accuracy (Figure 1a), while for another group such feedback was supplied (Figure 1b).

Given that the ISPC effect is thought to reflect learned reactive control (e.g., Bugg, 2017), which in other contexts has been suggested to be insensitive to reward (Braver, 2012), we anticipated observing an ISPC effect of similar magnitude in both feedback groups. However, another plausible possibility is that, like most instances of associative learning, the acquisition of stimulus-control associations underlying the ISPC would benefit from performance feedback, which in turn would predict a larger ISPC effect for the feedback vs. no feedback group. Irrespective of these rival hypotheses, for the no feedback group, we expected to replicate previous ISPC studies, showing an interaction between proportion congruent (PC) and congruency whereby congruency effects are reduced for low PC relative to high PC images. 

# Experiment 1b

Because Experiment 1a resulted in a speed-accuracy trade-off, which made estimation of the true effect size more difficult, and we sought to probe whether the findings of Experiment 1a were replicable, we ran a (larger) replication sample in Experiment 1b. To discourage a speed-accuracy trade-off, we added in an additional reminder in the task instructions about responding as quickly and accurately as possible, and restricted the participant sample to people who had a mailing address in the United States (Location: US qualification on MTurk), since participants with the largest overall inverse efficiency scores in Experiment 1a resided elsewhere. 
